Add walkthrough blog post and fix favicon (#119)
JabRef/blog.jabref.org: _posts/2025-08-14-walkthrough-and-welcome-tab.md

---
title: Introducing JabRef's New Walkthrough and Welcome Tab
tags: [gsoc, walkthrough, welcome-tab]
author: yubo
---

> Hello! I'm [Yubo Cao](https://www.yubo-cao.com/), a [Google Summer of Code (GSoC) student at JabRef](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/myprojects/details/ae6W329p) this year. Today, I'm excited to share with you the new walkthrough and welcome tab features in JabRef.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hello! I'm [Yubo Cao](https://www.yubo-cao.com/), a [Google Summer of Code (GSoC) student at JabRef](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/myprojects/details/ae6W329p) this year. Today, I'm excited to share with you the new walkthrough and welcome tab features in JabRef that I worked on.
```

## Background

> JabRef is a free, open-source reference manager that has been evolving since 2003. Over the years, our community has continuously added new features to help users manage their references more efficiently. However, some of these features can be challenging for new users to discover. That's where the walkthrough and welcome tab come in—to help new users get started with JabRef without needing to read through the entire documentation.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like `--` or `---` would be better?

## What's New?

With these new features, JabRef users can now:

**Access Walkthroughs**: We've added walkthroughs to help new users get started with JabRef. These walkthroughs highlight the controls you need to interact with in a step-by-step manner, reducing the need to visit our [documentation](https://docs.jabref.org/) to get started with selected features.

![Walkthrough Example](../img/walkthrough-example.png)

**Utilize the Enhanced Welcome Tab**: The new welcome tab is more feature-rich compared to the previous version.

> - Quick settings in the welcome tab allow you to configure the most common settings with a single click.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Quick settings in the welcome tab allow you to configure the most commonly used settings with a single click.
```

- Walkthroughs can be directly opened from the welcome tab, making it easier for new users to get started with JabRef.

![Welcome Tab](../img/welcome-tab.png)

Additionally, the welcome tab now features a responsive layout that ensures proper display when you organize JabRef side-by-side with other applications.

![Welcome Tab Responsive Layout](../img/welcome-tab-responsive-layout.png)

> If you're eager to try out these features, simply download the [latest development version](https://builds.jabref.org/main/) and open JabRef. You will be greeted with the new walkthrough and welcome tab upon opening the application.

Reviewer: Add link to issues page saying - for any bugs you find when trying these features out, feel free to file them at...

## What's New?

With these new features, JabRef users can now:

**Access Walkthroughs**: We've added walkthroughs to help new users get started with JabRef. These walkthroughs highlight the controls you need to interact with in a step-by-step manner, reducing the need to visit our [documentation](https://docs.jabref.org/) to get started with selected features. Currently, there are five walkthroughs on:

1. Configure main file directory

> 2. Customize the entry table

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Customize entry table
```

> 3. Link PDF/external files to entries through the built-in full-text download, URL download, and directly drag-and-drop file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Link PDF/external files to entries (e.g. through the built-in full-text download, URL download, and directly by dragging-and-dropping the file)
```
Technically, JabRef can link not just PDFs, but any filetype, so "file" or "external file" is better than just having PDF in the name. For now, I think how you wrote it is fine, but maybe you whould rename your walkthrough and update the screenshot.

4. Group entries in library

> 5. Search through the library using basic full-text search and advanced Lucene syntax

Reviewer: This may conflict with one of Thilo's suggestions, but I think we are introducing topics of the walkthroughs we are providing, v/s the dialog titles that denote the action.

  - Toggle whether citation key should be shown in the entry table:
    ![Quick settings dialog on configuring citation key](../img/quicksettings-citation-key.png)
  - Configure push to application:
    ![Quick settings dialog on configuring push to application](../img/quicksettings-push-to-application.png)
  - Configure whether JabRef should check for update on start, web search, Mr. DLib, Grobid, and other online services:
    ![Quick settings dialog on configuring online services](../img/quick-settings-mr-dlib.png)

- Walkthroughs can be directly opened from the welcome tab, making it easier for new users to get started with JabRef.

![Welcome Tab](../img/welcome-tab.png)

Additionally, the welcome tab now features a responsive layout that ensures proper display when you organize JabRef side-by-side with other applications.

![Welcome Tab Responsive Layout](../img/welcome-tab-responsive-layout.png)

If you're eager to try out these features, simply download the [latest development version](https://builds.jabref.org/main/) and open JabRef. You will be greeted with the new walkthrough and welcome tab upon opening the application.

## Summary

> This walkthrough and welcome tab is a direct result of working on valuable user feedback, addressing long-standing feature requests ([#12272](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues/12272), [#12664](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues/12664), and [#9461](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues/9461) on JabRef's GitHub page).

Reviewer: We can leave this paragraph out.
Reason: the walkthrough project was planned/conceived by the JabRef maintainers to onboard newcomers into JabRef, and was not a feature request or reported issue by already existing/experienced users.
(Also, 9461 appears to be an unrelated PR?)

Author: Sorry I must have meant: https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues/9491

I removed this paragraph.
